So one thing happened in
the last.
Lecture, I mean, I did
something incorrect. I made a
mistake when we I designed
the circuit, so I just wanted
to do a recap on that.
This one.
Oh nice, thank you
OK.
Share my screen.
Laser printer.
So we'll start in one or
two minutes waiting for others
to join, and then today we
gonna finish the design part.
And next week we're gonna start
and how to minimize?
I just want to make sure
that everyone has the
attention to the class. So
like before, send me some
feedbacks in the chat box.
Great, seems everyone has
the focus.
OK, uh.
but today we have, I mean.
midterm exams are starting so.
Um?
So, um, last week last lecture,
uh, we wanted to try to
design A circuit that this was
the problem. We wanted to output
a one or we want to determine
whether there is an even number
of one in the input. So I did
mistake. I thought that I mean
the question is this. I thought
that the question is asking us
whether to whether the input
number is even or odd.
But the this was the question.
It says that if the number
of ones is.
Another tricky question.
Otherwise, output 0.
So. Basically, as I said, you
have to create a truth table and
then the left side at the number
of inputs. So in the question
usually they say how many input
do you have. If they don't say
you have to come up with a
instance. If they say that the
range of the inputs are between
for instance zero to 10, you
have to convert it to binary and
figure out how many position you
need to represent the input by
binary numbers. And then pick a
variable name for that.
XYZ or ABC or whatever and then
try to come up with the output
in the right side.
Also, for the right side, you
have to determine how many
binary output you need for this.
Determine whether we have a
number of one or not. So when
there is a yes or no, it means
that zero and one, so we only
need one binary app.
So and then you start to fill
out the right side.
So.
In the first input, when the
input is 000 and the number of
ones is 0, so zero is considered
Even so you are.
Possibility if X is 1 Y is 0 and Z is 0 the number of ones is odd
because we have only one digital
one. So the output is 0.
The third 1010 again the number
of ones are only one digital
one. The number ones are.
Odd so output 0.
The 4th one. The number
of ones is 2, so true
is even you output one.
For the input at 5100, the
number of ones is 1, one is odd.
So this way you fill out the
output and now you decide
whether you want to design it by SOP or POS
So I already said that you if
you try to design it by a
circuit that needs less number
of gates. So if you design it by
the SOP, meaning that the by
minterms you look at the entries, that makes it one in
the output. So 1234 unit 4
minterms. However, if you look at those into that makes it 0 or
designed by POS or maxterm, you have to look at those
entities that are 0 so 1234. So
in this case whether you design
it by SOP or design it by POS doesn't matter. Both has the
same number of maxterms or minterms, so you can you have
the option usually in the
question they say that we want
you to design by.
SOP or they say that you want to
design by POS. But if they don't
give you any particular design,
you can choose between them.
So.
Sigma minterm of goes into that makes it one. It becomes minterm
here, 0 midterm 3
here is the minterm 5 and minterm six.
And then here is the circuit.
So let me turn 0 minterm XYZ bar within three and
exception.
How would you go with the Max terms or the design of SOP or
sum of products you look at
those inches with zero and write
the maxterms maxterms. Here is
the Max terms.
1. Why? Because the index is
the binary representation of the
input. You could say that here you could say that maxterm is minterm
followed by the not. So this one maxterm one is mid term one
followed by the nots.
Yes, Nick exactly exactly.
That's what he uses. Midterms
POS uses maxterm, correct? Yes.
And then the next one is here.
This is the maxterm
Two because the binary digit in
the input is 2.
The maxterm 2 is equal to minterm and two followed by the not.
The third one, and this last
one, the 4th one.
Here's the maxterm 7. So another way to show the maxterm
The product maxterm 1, maxterm 2
And with maxterm 4.
Another shorter forms discussed
product using the Pi symbol
product of maxterm 1247.
So one trick is this. So you
see the the numbers here. These
are the numbers that wouldn't be in the minterms, so the minterms
are Sigma minterms 035 and six. The maxterms are those numbers
that are not in the minterm, so product or maxterm 1247.
So whatever number happens in the minterms, it doesn't happen
in the maxterm and vice versa.
And he.
Someone?
This is the maxterm one, so for myself it's hard to come up
with the Max term, so I usually say that Maxterm and one is minterm
Want to meet and one is easier
for me. So I create the meeting
one and then followed by the not becomes this so just to
show you that. So I usually say that maxterm one is minterm one
followed by and not.
So what is missing one return
one is 001, followed by then
not. So it becomes one.
One and then.
NO.
I usually myself when I want to design by maxterm
do this for the maxterms.
But you can memorize what is the maxterm. For instance two and
then come up with the minterm. And then you design the circuit
so maxterm two is export. Or why
bar Z. So here is.
So this is not correct as you
can see here is attached to X,
so it should be attacked here.
Explore Ybor and NZ.
So this is not correct. We have to fix this. maxterm 7 is x bar
Y bar z bar
And then all of them, and
together. So again 2 levels.
So before I continue with the next topic, I want you to do a
practice on the design based on
the SOP or POS.
So I create a Google Doc here,
so I want you. I give you 5
minutes. Design this one
and Meanwhile I design it
on my whiteboard so
please click on this URL.
I put it in the chat box.
So when you're ready, just give
me some feedback. Then we can
continue with this.
So the question is.
Design in majority 2nd.
Thank you , how about everybody else other students
can you? Could you open the.
So since everybody.
Got 14 years student here.
But we have 30 three student in
the class, so I need all this
student open this document.
Yes 23.
Thank you . So while I'm explaining the question so
please other student join this
document. So here the question
is this. Majority Circuit is
a circuit. We later see what
is combination of circuit
but imagine.
So far, so we want to let design
and logic circuit that output is
equal to 1.
When when the input variables
has more ones than zeros?
So basically you have to count
the number of zeros you have to
count the number of ones and if
the number ones are greater than
zeros you output 1, otherwise
you output 0.
And the question says that the
number of input is free. So the
question already said that. How
many binary input you need.
So, um.
Let me share my whiteboard.
I'm done.
You have 5 minutes now is 1016,
so you have or 1017.
Up until 10:20, ten, 21 or
two. Put your answers in
this thought. Just.
Basically put your name and
then copy paste your answer
in this document so we can
simply create an image of
your answer and then copy
the image here.
So, but let me.
So basically the question.
The inputs.
You know, so we pick a variable
name, for instance a.
BC. For our
inputs.
So the left side of the
truth table.
And then we put all
the possibilities, so 000001.
You know 10011 other ways,
but if you do it by
practice, you can see that
this is kind of the.
123 up until 7:00 or you can do
this. As you can see in the
first position, 010101 in the
second position, 00110011. And
if you continue, the same goes
for other entries. If you have
more variables. And here
4 zeros 41.
And now how many binary
variables we need in the output?
With the output of
basically, the question only
says that we want to output
if you have either.
What you know that's 10, so we
only have you only need one
output F for F1.
So the first one.
School.
The first one, we have no zeros,
so we have three digital zero
and there is no digital one.
So basically, the number of we
could say that the number of
zeros. R. Three,
the number of digit one
is a 0.
Bar.
Sorry about that. Yes, I think
there is an Internet issue.
Because I share my camera so.
So try to solve the problem
yourself and while I'm doing
myself so. Uh, just I
just wanted like you
to solve the problem.
So the first one,
the number of 1.
The second one is our two.
The number ones are one, so
again is still the number ones
are less than zeros.
This third one, the same, the
number of zeros is more than
once. Here the number of
zeros are warm, but the
number of ones are two.
So now the number ones are
greater than the number of zeros
we output one.
The this 1100 the number
of zeros is greater here.
1011628110 the number one is.
So this is the truth table
for this problem.
Oh oh, let me.
Oh, that's let me share, give
you the full control for all.
If you are editing.
I believe now we can
do that right now.
Type something in.
So can you type something?
Oh cool, awesome. So just
put your name.
So here's the truth table.
So when we have the truth
table, we can design based on the minterms or SOP
So I put it here SOP
Or Sigma of minterms Or what are
the minterms? And also I can design it based on POS.
Product of maxterms. But what are the maxterms
So for the.
minterms I have only checked those entries or one, so this one.
This one this and this.
We need 4 maxterms so it doesn't matter which design you choose,
because here the same number of.
The maximum limit are we need.
So for the Maxterms here is the minterms.
This is the minterm 3
Minterm 5
minterm 6 minterm 7.
For the maxterm we need.
Max terms, you know maxterm one maxterm 2.
And then here maxterm
This one maxterm 4.
So. Minterm 08 minterm
three is. Uh.
X.
AEC bar minterm 5 is
Ab bar C minterm 6 is as you can see here
a bar bC.
A bar bC. minterm 7 is all or one easy.
For the  maxterm 0 meters.
A bar. Type AB or
C. maxterm one is minterm one followed by the not
Which is.
A bar
or B or C?
maxterm 2 is minterm 2 followed by the not.
Which is.
A or B bar
or C.
maxterm 4
B bar C is you do another not because A or B or C bar
Now we can discuss the design.
So. I just have to remove
all of them.
So for the minterm, so this is the ABC.
And this is the not of each other.
And now I have to design based on the SOP so SOP
is minterm 3
c bar
And then together.
The next is a.
B bar
see.
And then together.
Uh.
The M M6 is a b bar
C
And then the last one is a.
C
Or all with that?
This is the F of in the form of SOP
So one thing I want to just as a
trick or kind of, I mean very
easy. So as you can see here we have 7 minterms
Four of them happened in the middle for SOP else happens
for maxterm. So maxterm 0.
Doesn't have we don't have it here. maxterm one maxterm two,
so these are the.
Easy called maxterms, or vice versa if you are given the
maxterms. We can easily come up with minterms
So if I just remove
the maxterms.
Just by keeping track of
the midterms.
I could simply say that.
The maxterms. What was the maxterm so I could say
that Max terms are.
Whatever maxterm that doesn't happen in the SOP, so O.
1/2 you have three. You
don't have 4, so for what
goes here 567.
Or if we don't know the minterms, but we have the maxterms, so we
could simply says that.
minterms are those that are not in the maxterms. So what are
not on the maxterm 012 you don't have 3 5 4-5.
6-7 so whatever is not in the maxterm there are
limiters for the SOP
So let's design for the maxterm
So I just need to.
No, all of these.
And.
Yes. And then Max 10 zero Max.
And 124.
Next
so Maxim 0 is mid term zero
followed by the not, so it
becomes a bar.
or with each other. So this is the mid term
zero followed by not or Maxim 0.
maxterm one is minterm one followed by the not.
minterm one is here so it becomes a
In C.
10 zero oh Oh yeah.
That one. A
or B or C.
Um, it'll want maxterm. What is better one qualified and
not so becomes.
I always focus on one,
so if we can't see it
or before or together.
And then maxterm two minterm two followed by the not between 2.
Is this one followed by the not
so it becomes.
Hey.
I see. Order together.
And maximum four is written four
followed by the not so 100 point
did not cause one or one or
zero. So a.
He nuts.
And then all of them.
This is a product, so for FPLS
we. And then together or
father picture.
So let's check the.
Uh.
Oh Nick, actually put the let me
share my screen.
So he ran.
, you start with zero and it's as long as you put
all the possibilities.
That's OK, so the truth table
doesn't impose any order when
you put the input possibilities.
So Nick start from 7 and then 65 and etc, so that's OK.
But when you write the midterms,
you come up with the same item.
So midterm, 3 midterm UH-7.
Mid term 6 and Mr 5.
Let's look at the Philip.
So they want maximum one.
The Maxim Zero maximum 1/2
and maximum 4 correct. Yes,
that's correct answer.
So we only have two answers.
How about other students?
So let's move on to the next
topic. So this is basically
designed. So in this case, as I
said, we have the two designs
has the same number of kids, but
sometimes if you design it by
aesopi it's better because it
needs less number of gates. If
you design it by POS, sometimes
it's bad, so.
So the next topic is.
Let me check whether it
is a question.
Ah.
Sorry guys, I think the problem
is in from my side I guess my
Internet. I mean this week my
Internet. I don't know why.
Uh, it cut out a lot, uh?
I'm trying to fix it so I
contact the Internet provider
just to fix the problem so.
So I turn up all my devices
just to use this.
Any questions so far?
Hello.
Awesome.
Awesome, so let's continue with
the new topic universality.
Up
this new slide.
Described.
So.
Universality, once put this
question, it says that is
it possible to design any
logic circuit using a specific
gates? Once you have the
problem, you know how to design
it. So based on the PUS or SOP.
It is out of stock.
Or you go to the market and you
see that in your market there is
no gate for not.
So. Here is the question, is it
possible to design A circuit?
Only using some specific
set of gates.
Why, as I said, sometimes you
are not. Some gates are not
available at your hand.
Sometimes this is very
important. Sometimes you go
to the market and you see
that some gates are expensive
than the others, so you.
I really know how to build not
fine and an if then and or
cheaper I combine and to come up
with a not gate.
So this is another way to
design AI mean cheaper circuit.
So let's start with the complete
or is with the full set.
When we have all the available
gates at our hands, so we
already know that we can design
any circuit by not and and or.
Also, if you are given
and or.
Second, sorry, we can't.
I have not. Whenever we need a
NAND gate, we can use it or
whenever we need to know that
we can use it. So these are
the available goods. For
instance in the market.
So our question is that if we
don't have that, is it still
possible to design the
circuit? How can I replace
none in the circuit?
So we already said that Nat
is and plus not. So you can
simply build than and by just
a two and not gate. So it's
very easy to rebuild that.
The same is with North. So
whenever in your circuit you
need an OR gate you can see.
Can buy or not scared and then
attach them together just to
work you as in or git.
So basically you can reduce this
set to this set so any circuit
can be redesigned by not and or.
So the next is this. Can we
reduce this set further to see
that? I mean for instance here?
Can I design any circuit by only
not and and so? Basically we say
that we don't need or. So here's
the question. Can we design or?
410 you can we do this not on or
basically we just drop the OR
gate? Sorry, dropped the and
gate and build the end by only,
not on. Or is it possible to do
that or not? And then let's
check whether we can reduce the
sets more. Only one gate. Is it
possible to build any circuit by
nuts? Yes, the answer to this
question is this.
If we could build or an end with
nuts. Then we are good to go
because we have and and or by
did not. So then we can come up
to this full set.
So basically, whenever we could
build, rebuild a gate and come
up to the disk original set.
It means that it.
The design only one game.
So for instance, or if you are
given only or gate, is it
possible to design any circuit?
In order to answer this, we have
to check whether we can design
and with or and not with or. And
if you could that then we have
not end and create an or gate.
So the answer to this question
gonna be reduced to this
question if we could design not
an end with or gate.
I know.
So let's check them.
So the first one is this. Is it
possible to design any circuit
by not an Ant?
So to answer this, we only have
to check whether we can design
or with these two or not. If you
could design or then we receive.
I mean we.
Have the full set and
then the answer is yes.
So how can we design and design
or with and get?
As a Tatiana said.
As the tenant said,
did the Morgans law?
So here is the question, not. We
are only. We only have not an
and gate and we want to say that
is it possible to design any
circuit by these two gates.
To answer that, we just wanted
to check whether we can design
or with these two.
So as you know, said the answer
is using the D Morgan's law. You
see this person how important
this person is for the computer
science or for the computer
systems. And you see in the.
Computer science at the computer
systems. And this is the famous
law. Basically the relationship
between and and or is this.
So. Or followed by the nut
is equal to will bring the nut
inside it becomes X or Y. Prime
becomes X prime.
And why prime?
So if you do another not on both
side of the equation.
So the left side another, not
the right side another night, so
the left side not on top of the
nuts become nothing.
So we have X or Y in the right
side. What we have in the
right side is export and white
bar followed by the nut. So
you see that in the left side
we have or in the right side
we have only an, so we could
simply say that we can build.
All of two binary variables.
Top then followed
by another note.
And here is the design. So X
or Y is equal to XY, each
one not so X export YY bar
and then add them together.
It becomes X4 and Ybor and then
followed by another nut.
It becomes X or Y.
Another way to show this is
this. You remember instead of
using, not, we can just use the
inversion bubble so we can use
it like this.
So and. Having the not in the input and having the not in the
output acts like or.
Isn't it amazing? So there is no
need for or gate just by using a
NAND gate you can simply not the
input and then not the output
you create or out of Ant.
So they are.
Design in a second
by not and and only.
So here is the answer.
Yes.
The second is this, this one
not on or how, but not on or.
So if you're only given not
an or gate, is it possible to
design any circuit with only
these two gates?
The answer to this question is a
reduces through this question.
If we could build the ad with
or, then the answer is yes.
So again. by the Morgans law
finding variables and apply not not goes inside and changes the
end to or?
So X&Y not becomes Explorer
or wiper. So the same thing
we did, so we do another
knock on both equation.
I love the equation.
So the left side not on not
becomes nothing, so becomes X&Y.
The right side becomes export or
wybor followed by another nut.
So you see that the right
side we have and in the left
side we have over. So the
answer is yes, we can build.
And not.
And here is the design, so X&Y
is equal to X.
Followed by the not explore why
followed by the not Why Bar.
And then or them together.
So explore or Ybor followed
by another nut.
This becomes X.
And one so another way to show
this circuit is this.
Not not in the input, not in the
app, so again, a NAND gate is or
when we have not in the input,
not in the output.
So there is no need for an.
So again, whenever you don't
have the end get, you can
rebuild it by not an order.
So let's try to reduce this set
more. Is it possible only using
one data design any circuit?
Imagine nuts if you are given a
nut. Is it possible to
build and and then or and
then finally any circuit?
How about an only end up?
If you try at home practice at
home, you couldn't. You cannot
find a way to design.
As a result, you cannot.
Design and stick it with not.
Also, if you are given only and
it is not possible to build
not out of And, you can build or out of an, but you need not
and you have to build not but
by and it cannot be, not.
So this is not also possible.
Also fits well or it is not
possible. So you see that not
is an essential gate.
It would be an aura compared
with an to build or.
But the amazing thing is this
NAND and nor.
So the answer for Nathan Knorr
is yes. And because the set only
has one gate, we call this
instead of just universal sets.
You could say that Universal
Gate. Universal Gate is a gate
that can be can be used to
design any circuit.
Basically, when we say that NAND
is a universal gate, we meet.
We can build not.
We can build and and we can
build or and as a result we can
build any circuits. Let's check
how we can do that.
So we already saw that for the
net if we use the same input for
both inputs of the Nat, it acts
like not so X and with itself
followed by dinner.
And gate.
It's not with itself. It is like
a nut. We already saw this, so
this is the not gate. By using
the. Net X.
And with itself not.
It becomes X.
About the and so and so. We
already know that the NAND is
not and. So if I apply
another nut, it becomes not not
and so not not and is equal to
add. So XY NAND
or and not another
not.
It becomes X&Y.
So you can simply design and buy
two NAND gates.
The first NAND followed by.
A same input.
in the NAND and.
And we already saw that when you have not an and, you can build
or. So this is another way to
build or buy the NAND gate so
the Morgans law.
X or Y followed by the nuts is
equal to export or an ybor.
Apply another nut on both sides.
So at the end you see that X
or Y is equal to X4 and Y
bar nuts 02 binary.
Nadwi board is equal to X or Y.
And here is the design for or.
So explore.
And and by the same input Y bar.
And then. And then together
followed by not. So this is
the nap.
So in fact, if you go to the
market, you cannot find a NAND
gate or you cannot find an or
gate or not gate.
Usually the chips.
So if you go to the market, you
can buy this chip.
Which has four NAND gate using
this phone and gates, you can
design your circuit.
So whenever you need and not,
you can't. You have to simply
wire your inputs to the same
inputs of the NAND gate.
For instance, input one A1B.
The same wires goes here, it
outputs the nuts.
Also, whenever you need or.
Between X&Y, you have to create,
export Ybor and then attack.
This this output and this output
goes here. In order to
make it over.
So I leave it as a question
or as a practice at home that
how can you design. You can
create and so if you need
X&Y, how did you? How do you
do that by this chip?
What output should be
connected with each other in
order to create X&Y?
So I leave it as a
question for you.
So the answer to this question
was yes, you can design any.
And elsewhere.
The next question is that
how bad nor.
If I give an Norgate, is it
possible to design any circuit?
Or in another word, is nor
is a universal gate or no. I
mean, nor can design any
other gates or not.
So here is the formula. So you
have to follow the same thing
that we did Ferdinand. So you
have to build, not or an end
with nor gate. You already saw
that if you input the same input
to the Norgate, it acts like a
not so X.
Nor with itself, it acts like a
knot. Or was not or
so if you apply and.
It's not all is all.
And for creating an ad using the
Morgan's law. So basically X4.
Norway bar is equal to X&Y.
Anne. This is the design, so
nor acts like, not. If you do
this same input to the Norgate.
If you do another nuts on top of
the new or so.
This is XY North and then not.
It becomes not not all or or.
And for the, NOR with the end
gate, in order to design the and
gate, you have to simply follow
the D Morgan's law.
So basically, X Explorer, YY
bar, and then nor them together.
So export or Ybor
followed by the not.
This is the export
Norway Bar which is
equal to X&Y.
And again, if you go to the
market, you can find a chip that
has Norgate. So in the market
the only available chips or
electronic. You'd use units that
you can buy is in the form of
NAND and NOR gate.
So if you need and not, you can
just attach to the same wire
into the two input of the North
and create an not.
If you need an act, you have
to simply create a not of
the inputs and attach it to
two input up in nor, and
then you have an.
The next question would be how
can you create X or Y by using
this chip, what are?
Create or. So I could
simply give you the answer. So
if I want this circuit outputs
X. Alwy
how can I do that?
Based on the previous slide, I
know that X.
Or why this one?
Is equal to.
X None with Y sorry X nor with
wife followed by the nut.
So I could simply use this, so I
put X here.
Why here, why did output is X?
Or why?
And then I attach this.
So this input the same to this
and what I'm gonna receive is X.
Or why?
So this is the way that
you can create or within
or gates for this chip.
So the next time.
Nor is a universal gate.
And all we already know two
type of designs.
Design by SOP design by
POS. How can I change the SOP only using the NAND?
How can I change the P OS only using NAND
Also, how can I change SOP only using nor or how can I
change SOP only using a POS only using Nor So basically
we want to add another step to
our design algorithms to design
circuit using only one gate.
For aesopi
here is the sample by sample.
I just wanted to show you
what's the algorithm.
So. This is the
design we already designed for
division by three, which is the
aesopi, so products and then or
or some. We had two outputs.
So let's start with the
this one.
It is simpler, so we have and an
or for the F2. So two midterms
or with each other.
I want to change these
gates to NAND.
I just wanted to replace these
cayston and only, only not.
So how can I do that?
So. In order to just explain the
algorithm before that, I just
wanted to check. Everyone
has the focus because the
next few slides gonna be
a little bit tricky.
So everybody has their
attention.
Where do you live?
Seems everybody has the
attention.
So here's the algorithm.
We already know that.
Any function or any binary
variable has two not on top of
each other. There is no impact.
There is no effect. Not of not
isn't itself, so we can simply
apply F2 by two nuts.
So nothing actually
happens by this.
But be careful here. Now I want
to go in simple trick.
The Queen nuts and the yellow
not. So I use the let's
rewrite the F2 by the
meters. So here is the
same. So basically F2 is
M4 or M5.
But followed by two nuts, which
doesn't have any impact.
Now I decide use the D
Morgan's law to bring the
green not inside the first
night inside the parenthesis.
So if I bring the first not
inside the parentheses, it goes
on top of the midterms and makes
the. Or and so we have
M4, not an M5 nuts.
So we just bring the first, not
inside the foundations.
Is it the second not is outside?
So let's rewrite M5 and M
M4 and M5.
So this is the metaphor.
Not, and this is
the meeting 5 not.
And now. And if
you look at look.
Explorer vibe or Z and
followed by the nut, so
this is the net.
Also here.
X. And Y bar and
Z. Followed by the nuts.
So it is the NAND gate.
So basically the mitten followed
by the nut is in and so
it's X porn and Ybor nansy.
For this meeting four
and this is the Middle
5 followed by the nut.
And again, if you consider this
as Alpha. And consider this as
beta. So you have Alpha and
beta not. So this is
Alpha and and beta.
So the final expression
is this. All the gates
are not except in nuts.
So.
Or an Ant all becomes NAND.
Except I'm not.
So if you see here, if I
redesign this circuit, it
becomes export.
Why Ball Z NAND so this becomes
a NAND gate?
And then this one.
And followed by the nuts.
And then all of them instead of
or it becomes. And of these two.
Followed by the nuts ornans.
So here is the chant.
So you see, it's very simple to
redesign a circuit which is
based on the aesopi too.
And.
So let's do another practice
and this function, the F1.
This is the aesopi.
So midterms all with each other.
So simply I apply two nuts on
top of each other.
Then I write rewrite F1
as a midterms.
Then I decide to bring the first
nut inside the parenthesis, so
all the midterms becomes
midterms, followed by the nuts.
And then if you re write the
midterms followed by the nut,
they become an followed by the
nut, which is not.
So the first name, second and
third enforcement I have to put
in, not here.
And then if you consider
each term.
So followed by the nuts it
becomes end of them followed by
the nut, which is not so.
Basically it means that replace
all these. Anthony, this or.
With that
so again, no. This is
the circuit before, and
this is the circuit net.
And we put all these two
together. So as circuit that
used to be on 1st, all Ann and
the second level or or gate. Now
all of them becomes NAND Gate.
You would say that what happens
to these nuts?
So we know that how can we build
the knot finance? So basically
replace those. Not gates with
this gate, none with same input.
So here is the algorithm.
Whenever you do 2 nuts on top of
the aesopi. You end with a
circuit that only has NAND gate.
So you would say ask what, what
if I have POS or product of sums
in the first level I have or an
in second level I have and how
can I do this?
You have this option when you
have QoS. So I leave it as a
lecture for you as an
assignment for you.
The next is how about the NOR
gate? Is it possible to design
the any circuit by Norgate? We
said yes. So.
For the Norgate, if you follow
this same algorithm we did for
the net in order to convert.
Can do for the POS if you
apply to nuts on POS.
Finally, you will see a gate.
You will see a circuit that has
only nor gates.
Again, I leave it as a
lecture assignment for you.
And here is the recap.
So.
If you have a question
to design A circuit.
Here are two options. Either you
design this circuit boy sum of
products or aesopi.
By some of the meters.
So you have to look at those
into. That makes the output one.
The first level is and the
second level is or.
And you can do two nuts on top
of the SOP to come up with an
and only get. So then the final
seeker gonna have only market.
If you choose to design it based
on the POS.
So basically the first level is
or and the second level is and
you have to look at the maximums
Max terms are those that makes
the output zoo.
Max turns also did not admit
to it, so you write it as the
product of maxterms or end of
the Max terms and if you
follow this.
maxterms, you end up with a circuit that has only Nor gate.
So we can do this at home.
I leave it as a lecture silent.
And so, based on this algorithm
that just applied 2, not on top
of each other, bring the first,
not inside the parentheses, but
do not apply the second, not.
You can change so Peten and only
gates POSPOS to not only gate.
But these two questions is still
is open for you to try that.
If you are given an aesopi gate
or aesopi Boolean functions
Sigma of midterms.
And you're asked to design it as
a newer. How can you do that?
Committed to the not only
circuit, but how can you do?
Transfer it or convert it to
ignore only gate.
Also, for the pure S, if you
are given appearance by
applying two nuts, you can
convert it to the nor only
gate.
But, uh, how about if you are
asked to convert a Pu S tune and
on the 2nd?
How can you do that? So anybody
has the idea to do that? For
instance, this one let's.
Let's only thing is anybody has
the idea about this?
No.
Um?
Correct, yes, Ancol is
correct. Basically it says
that you can create a.
An and by NOR
You can convert a. You can
design the name by nor.
But is there any straightforward
I mean algorithm? So we already
know that we can design or with
an app, so you can have to
simply just replace the NAND
gate with the redesign of the
NAND with NOR gates.
What is step forward would be we
have SOP SOPR, the Sigma of midterms that makes the output
one. So you can simply say that, OK, I can redesign the SOP by POS
to sum of the maxterms.
Those maxterms that doesn't occur in the midterms and then.
An SOP
One easy way would be this. You
design SOP. Bring it to POS and then make the
POS as NOR only gates.
says, uh.
SOP  always a is sum.
So double not. Can just ignore applied
to the cuprum twice?
All. I think you're right. Let's
let's, The thing is.
When you have a SOP
Off some minterms
So if you apply.
Two not
It becomes meter followed
by two nuts.
But if you just consider you
apply only one, not.
Do not consider the second. Not
so F becomes.
F4.
So if you create F4, which
basically means that the
midterms followed by the not
becausw maxter. But at the end
of the day, you have maxterms
which is F4.
So basically the SOP. So we could say this if you
have the SOP
Followed by just one not.
So F becomes F4. If you
do this, it becomes pure us.
But the appeal is 4F bar, not
F. the PS4 F 4.
So you assume that you are
designing for F4. You do the Pu
S and change the purest form.
And then finally, when you have
the North, you finally attached
the output of.
2. Final. Norgate
it becomes.
F so then you have SOPU do
one not bring it to POS.
And then you make it, nor
only Gates, but that final
designs F4. Finally you do
another not, so it becomes
A3 level first, nor second,
nor and then the third node.
So just give me a hint. So the
first phone or is the F4.
Followed by another
norwhich becomes F.
So. I think that's an
interesting challenge for you
too. Uh. Come up with
an algorithm that.
The question says that once
design a second by nor only gate
NAND only gate, what would be
your option to do that?
So I'm done with today's
lecture. Uh, I'm happy to take
your question and also after the
this lecture, I'm going to be in
the office. So again, I'm happy
to take your question or
anything related to the course,
an issue or whatever.
And thank you so much for your
attention and again, sorry about
the Internet issues I mean.
Uh, not having a stable
Internet. I'm trying my
best to fix this for the
next week, thank you.
Thanks.
Yeah.
Thank you Abbie. Had a great day. Thank you, Christopher.
You too have a great day.
Thank you Matthew.
Thank you Tetiana. Have a great day.
Thank you Gio. Have a good day, so let me.
Jay  and Sam. If you don't mind, I'm going to
remove you from the class.
So then I can close the
class and.